- [Instructor] The next step will be to write
the OrderDao class which is going to get us
the orders for the user from the database.
So let's go to the IDE, and under the db package,
I will add one more class,
which is the OrderDao.
In this I will take a Logger first for logging anything,
it's java.util.logging,
and let's see Logger.getLogger orderDao.class.getName.
So we have the logger ready,
and then we can write a method
which is going to retrieve the orders.
So for this, we will first need a domain object
in order to collect all the orders data.
So let's go and do that first.
I will go to the db package,
make another class that will be Order,
which is the domain object inside which all my data sits.
Let's come back to the Order now and define fields in this,
so there will be a private userId,
there will be an orderId,
there'll also be noOfItems, for every order,
there will be the amount,
and there'll be an orderDate,
that's java.util and let's also go
and generate the Getters and Setters for all these feats.
Right, so our domain object is ready,
now let's go back to the orderDao
and write a method here.
Now this method is going to have multiple orders returned
from the database.
So let's take the return type
as List of the order domain objects, like that.
And the input for this method is going to be the userId.
The next thing will be to get the connection first
because it's database code.
So let's grab the connection using
the H2DatabaseConnection class that we already have.
And on this, I'm going to fetch the PreparedStatement,
that'll contain my query.
So the query's again going to be a very simple one,
if you're going to select * from the orders table,
where I'm just going to push this on the next line
so that it becomes easier to view for us.
Yes, so select * from orders where the user_id
will be the dynamic parameter that we want to set.
And let's set that dynamic parameter.
So I'm going to say preparedStatement.setInt, first parameter,
and that will be the userId that is received
from the argument that is on line 11.
So we feed that as the parameter to the query.
We're getting few errors,
so that's basically asking us to handle everything
using try/catch, so let's do that.
I'm also going to make sure that the try block on line 15,
actually should start when we do everything else
so let's do that and align this correctly.
Let me also do one more thing,
I can grab this connection variable outside,
instead of the try block,
set this to null here
and then just assign this at the corresponding code line.
The other thing that I want to do here
before proceeding to the code,
is defining a list of orders in which we collect our data.
So let's make that Array List here,
orders equal to new ArrayList, right?
Now let's come down and this preparedStatement or setInt
will be setting the parameter on line 25,
this line should not sit outside the try
so I'm just going to cut this and paste it under try, okay.
In addition to this if you see,
you have the catch block that got generated
and it has got the printStackTrace on 24,
which we are not happy with,
we'll just log it using a logger.
So we'll say logger.log,
SEVERE level say Could not execute query,
this is a message of your choice, of course,
along with the exception object.
So what do we have to do in addition to setting
the parameter on the PreparedStatement.
The next big step is executing the query,
so we'll take a ResultSet object
that will be ResultSet object, yeah, that's java.sql,
and you have to call the executeQuery method
on that statement.
Then we'll iterate this ResultSet,
while resultSet.next,
and what are we going to do?
Understand that the query on line 24,
which is select * from orders where user_id
is going to fetch us multiple rows from the database.
So for every row that we fetch,
we will create an Order object,
and that Order object will get added to the list of orders
that we have declared on line 18.
So that's what we're going to do.
So let's say for every resultSet,
let's create a new Order object like this,
and let's start setting the fields
on this Order object one by one.
So we'll do order.setUserId,
and that will come as an integer from the ResultSet,
the name of the column in the database is order_id,
so that's what we'll write there.
Similarly, we'll do,
okay, I think this is user_id, so this should be user_id.
Let's correct that, yes.
The next one will be setOrderId,
which is going to come from the order_id column
from the database,
so that again is an int.
The next one is the NoOfItems, that's again an int,
so let's do that, no_of_items,
that's the name of the column.
Then we have setTotalAmount,
we say getDouble,
and the name of the column is total_amount.
And lastly we have the OrderDate,
so that will come as a Date from the database,
the name of the column is order_date.
So once we have all the fields set for the Order object,
the last step would be to add the total object
to the list of orders.
So I'm going to say orders.add that order object.
So just to be clear, these column names are coming
from our initialized .sql script
which is already present under your resources,
feel free to double-check in case there are typos
so that they don't result into any errors.
So for the entire ResultSet that we have,
for each row that we retrieved, we created an order object.
We set all the fields and we added that to the list.
And the final statement will be to return
that entire list back.
So that is basically our data access object class
which will retrieve orders for a user,
and set them into the order domain object.
A list of such order domain objects will be returned
from this method.